---
Title: DAM101 Jounal_4
categories: [DAM101, Jounal_4]
tags: [DAM101]
---

# Topic : Convolutional Neural Networks Case Studies
----

## ResNets 
### Introduction
This article discusses the application of Residual Neural Networks (ResNet) in image classification, particularly focusing on the CIFAR-10 dataset. It highlights the challenges faced in deep neural networks due to the vanishing gradient problem and introduces ResNet as a solution to train deeper networks effectively. The paper outlines the structure and components of ResNet, emphasizing its residual connections which allow for easier training of very deep networks.

**Key Points**
- ResNet addresses the degradation problem encountered in deep neural networks by introducing residual connections.

- **ResNet Structure and Components:**
ResNet utilizes residual components composed of convolution layers and identity mappings.Where as the residual connection allows for the direct addition of input and output, facilitating the training of deep networks.

- **Inception-Resnet and Inception-Resnet v1:**
Inception-ResNet incorporates 1x1 extended convolutions to ensure output width consistency. And Inception-ResNet v1 reduces computational overhead to ensure fair comparison with other models like Inception v3.

### Conclusion
The paper wraps up by saying that ResNet is a strong method for recognizing images using deep learning. It points out ResNet's accuracy, ability to handle noise well, and how it stays reliable even with lots of data.

**For more information refer the below link**
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/346212393_Image_classification_based_on_RESNET

## MobileNe
### Introduction
The article addresses the difficulty of scaling ConvNets to improve accuracy without sacrificing efficiency. And shows the discovery of EfficientNets achieving a top-tier accuracy with fewer parameters and computational operations (FLOPS), whereas Traditional methods lacked systematic exploration and rely on manual tuning.

**Key Points:**
- ConvNets achieve higher accuracy with larger networks, but this comes with increased parameters and hardware overhead.
- Traditional scaling methods involve manual tuning and do not fully explore the design space, leading to sub-optimal solutions.
- Hence the authors propose and demonstrates the effectiveness of compound scaling through experiments on existing ConvNets and the development of EfficientNets using NAS.
- EfficientNets achieve state-of-the-art accuracy while using fewer parameters and FLOPS compared to existing models.
- Compound scaling and EfficientNets offer potential benefits for models dealing with large datasets or resource constraints.

### Conclusion
Since Compound scaling and EfficientNets offer potential benefits for models dealing with large datasets or resource constraints, the Traditional scaling methods was replaced by them.

**For more information refer the below link**
https://indico.cern.ch/event/974335/contributions/4102772/attachments/2139841/3609007/ML_Journal_mPP_121120_MT.pdf


## EfficientNet
### Introduction
The article presents research on utilizing MobileNet architecture, a type of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), for image recognition on mobile and embedded devices with limited computational resources for achieving high efficiency and effectiveness in computer vision tasks.

**Key Take Away**
- Traditional image recognition models require high computational power and large datasets, making them inefficient for everyday use. Hence  Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) with MobileNet architecture designed are introduced for mobile and embedded devices with ARM-based CPUs and limited resources.

- MobileNet employs depthwise separable convolutions to reduce computational complexity while maintaining accuracy.

- **Network Structure and Training:** MobileNet structure consists of depthwise separable convolutions with batch normalization and ReLU nonlinearity. Training involves techniques such as side heads, label smoothing, and reduced weight decay.

### Conclusion
MobileNet architecture offers a solution for image recognition tasks on eco-friendly devices, balancing accuracy with size and latency to cater to real-world applications.

**For more information refere the below article**
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/339806434_Efficient_mobilenet_architecture_as_image_recognition_on_mobile_and_embedded_devices

